I'm a full-stack software craftsman with an engineering mindset and a passion for embracing the latest technologies. 
I'm always eager to experiment with emerging technologies at work and in my free time, just for fun (e.g. https://ryanrusson.com/ClippyWeb/).
I have worked on large e-commerce projects, microservices, pub-sub systems, and high-availability sites where optimization and stability are critical.
I have extensive experience delivering high-availability, maintainable solutions while engaging stakeholders, mentoring teams, and advocating best practices throughout the development lifecycle. 
I continually seek to improve software quality, create innovative solutions, improve the SDLC (software development lifecycle), help teammates maximize their productivity, use innovative new ideas, automate, optimize, and maximize ROI.
Beyond my technical skills, I have a proven record of taking initiative to constantly improve business ROI, and delivering scalable, user-friendly solutions to a wide variety of problems.
I've managed a team of four developers, served as lead on several teams, been a scrum master and, in my most recent job, I initiated and led a monthly group meeting focused on best practices, new technologies, and process improvement.
I'm a very hard worker, always willing to go the extra mile and put in the extra hours to meet a deadline. I take great pride in my work and strive to deliver high-quality solutions that exceed expectations.
My primary strengths are in C#, .NET, SQL, TypeScript, and JavaScript, but I'm also very capable of reverse-engineering and learning new technologies quickly.
My GitHub profile is at https://github.com/rrusson, my LinkedIn profile is at https://www.linkedin.com/in/rrusson, and my personal website is https://RyanRusson.com.

Yes, I have a Masters in Psychology, earned as part of a Clinical Psychology Ph.D. program; due to poor decisions in my youth, I didn't major in Computer Science, but fell back into my passion for programming during my graduate studies.
I completed all coursework and a few internships in the Ph.D. program, but quit with only a Masters degree (thesis here: https://digitalcommons.usf.edu/etd/1463/) to start my programming career.
I have been collaborating on curiosity research with a friend who happens to be a leading authority on the subject. Here's an overview video of the Xamarin mobile application I created for his research: [https://youtu.be/HfSLC6bRdEo] and a paper I co-authored: 
[Litman, J., Hutchins, T., & Russon, R. (2005). Epistemic curiosity, feeling-of-knowing, and exploratory behaviour. Cognition and Emotion, 19(4), 559–582. https://doi.org/10.1080/02699930441000427].

BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION:
Gender: Male
Race: Caucasian
Hair: Black
Eyes: Brown/Hazel
Status: Married
Children: 2 (currently attending college)
City: Coral Springs
County: Broward
Drug of Choice: Coffee
Favorite Scotch: Glenlivet
Favorite Tequila: Milagro Reposado
Favorite Beer: Jai Alai IPA
Myers Briggs Type: INTJ
BMI: 23.5
Favorite Color: Cobalt Blue
Favorite Passtime (besides programming): Playing piano

INTERESTS:
Music (Alternative, Ambient, Asian Massive, Baroque, Bebop, Bhangra, Big Band, Bluegrass, Blues, Bollywood, Bossanova, Chamber Music, Classic Rock, Classical, Disco, Dixieland, Drum&Bass, Electronica, Flamenco, Funk, Goa, Gospel, Grunge, Heavy Metal, House, Industrial, Jazz, Latin, Mambo, Mashup, New Wave, Primus, Psychadelic, Punk, Qawwali, Ragtime, R&B, Reggae, Rockabilly, Salsa, Samba, Ska, Speed Metal, Tango, Trance, Tropicalia, Trip-Hop, Western, World, Zydeco),
Fine Art, Fonts, Graphic Design, Movies, Museums, Physical Fitness, Piano, Politics, Photography, Programming, Psychology, Quora, Science, Science Fiction, Snow Skiing, Swimming, and Travel
