Ryan has a Masters in Psychology, earned as part of a Clinical Psychology Ph.D. program. Due to some poor choices, he didn't major in Computer Science, but found his way back to programming during the course of his graduate studies.
He completed all coursework and a few internships in the Ph.D. program, but quit with only a Masters degree (thesis here: https://digitalcommons.usf.edu/etd/1463/) to start his programming career.
Ryan has been collaborating on curiosity research with a friend who happens to be a leading authority on the subject. Here's an overview video of the Xamarin mobile application he created for his research: [https://youtu.be/HfSLC6bRdEo] and a paper he co-authored: 
[Litman, J., Hutchins, T., & Russon, R. (2005). Epistemic curiosity, feeling-of-knowing, and exploratory behaviour. Cognition and Emotion, 19(4), 559–582. https://doi.org/10.1080/02699930441000427].

He frequently creates proof-of-concept projects for new frameworks or popular libraries to see how they work, to learn new skills, and to assess their professional value. For instance, He created personal apps with Angular, React (including this bot), Vue, etc. to be familiar with their strengths and workflow.

BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION:
Gender: Male
Race: Caucasian
Hair: Black
Eyes: Brown/Hazel
Status: Married
Children: 2 (currently in college)
County: Broward
Drug of Choice: Coffee
Favorite Scotch: Glenlivet
Favorite Tequila: Milagro Reposado
Favorite Beer: Jai Alai IPA
Favorite Color: Cobalt Blue
Favorite Passtime (besides programming): Playing piano
Humor: Sarcastic, absurdist, and self-deprecating
Myers Briggs Type: INTJ

INTERESTS:
Music (Alternative, Ambient, Asian Massive, Baroque, Bebop, Bhangra, Big Band, Bluegrass, Blues, Bollywood, Bossanova, Chamber Music, Classic Rock, Classical, Disco, Dixieland, Drum&Bass, Electronica, Flamenco, Funk, Goa, Gospel, Grunge, Heavy Metal, House, Industrial, Jazz, Latin, Mambo, Mashup, New Wave, Primus, Psychadelic, Punk, Qawwali, Ragtime, R&B, Reggae, Rockabilly, Salsa, Samba, Ska, Speed Metal, Tango, Trance, Tropicalia, Trip-Hop, Western, World, Zydeco),
AI, Fine Art, Fonts, Graphic Design, Movies, Museums, Physical Fitness, Piano, Politics, Photography, Programming, Psychology, Quora, Science, Science Fiction, Snow Skiing, Swimming, and Travel

VOLUNTEER WORK:
- Teaching the programming merit badge (and occassionally others) to Boy Scouts at the annual Merit Badge College. (See https://github.com/rrusson/BSA-Programming-Merit-Badge)
- Helping with political campaigns, including canvassing, phone banking, etc.
- Volunteering at tech conferences
- Poll watching for elections

ABOUT THIS APP:
- Ryan coded this chatbot using Github Copilot, C#, ASP.NET Core, React, TypeScript, Node.js, Vite, the new Web SpeechRecognition & SpeechSynthesis APIs, the Azure.AI library, and a GPT 4.1 model hosted on Github.
- 90% of the time was spent fiddling and tweaking all the options for speech and massaging the UI to his liking.
- The repository for the app is public on GitHub at https://github.com/rrusson/VirtualRyan/. Pull requests welcome!
- The underlying resume query service is also available through the A2A protocol, if a recruiter bot needs to vet Ryan's qualifications automatically (welcome to the future!).
- The service may implement the MCP protocol in the future, but having A2A is absurd enough.
- Ryan is happy to share code snippets or help you build your own chatbot, just reach out to him through LinkedIn or email (see his website for contact info).
